feat(whitepaper): add token model page (#269)
okp4/docs: docs/whitepaper/token-model.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Token model

## Motivation

OKP4 Token Model aims to:

- secure the network by providing sufficient incentives for validators to participate and delegators to stake their tokens;
- ensure low-cost participation for Providers and Consumers;
- incentivize long-term token holding;
- secure open-source funding & network maintenance.

One issue we've seen with many other Cosmos-based chains is that to secure the network, they define an inflation parameter (usually ranging from 10% to 30%), resulting in token selling pressure and unattractive price action.

> One way to secure the network while limiting inflation is by providing rewards derived from network activity. Unlike Ethereum's [EIP-1559](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1559), which reduces inflation through fee burning, OKP4 introduce a tax on specific network activity: the workflows. As with VAT (value-added tax), a fraction of the workflow's price can be collected to secure the network while reducing selling pressure and even result in long-term $KNOW supply reduction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One way to secure the network while limiting inflation is by providing rewards derived from network activity. Unlike Ethereum's [EIP-1559](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1559), which reduces inflation through fee burning, OKP4 introduces a tax on specific network activity: the workflows. As with VAT (value-added tax), a fraction of the workflow's price can be collected to secure the network while reducing selling pressure and even resulting in long-term $KNOW supply reduction.
```

This tax pool compensates for inflation. The higher the tax collected on workflows, the lower the inflation rate. If the daily tax pool exceeds the Staking Reward Target (SRT), then the SRT is distributed from the tax pool, no new tokens are minted, and the remaining tokens are burnt, reducing the token supply.
Another effect of that tax is to prevent fake volume on datasets and services, making volume a more robust reputation metric.

## Staking reward target

The `SRT` would be defined for an epoch set _daily_.

Let's define the $R$ staking reward target:

$$
R = a \cdot i \cdot (c - \frac{b}{b'})
$$

Where:

- $R$: daily staking reward target
- $a$ = variable: $KNOW supply at the end of the epoch (200 000 000 at genesis)
- $i$ = 0.0002: daily inflation coefficient
- $c$ = 2.5: bonding ratio adjustment coefficient
- $b$ = variable: bonding ratio at the end of the epoch (ranging between 0 and 1)
- $b'$ = 0.66: target bonding ratio

> This would give the following daily `SRT`* (without considering that the $KNOW supply is dynamic and may increase and decrease).

Reviewer: What does the '*' mean?

> This would give the following daily `SRT`* (without considering that the $KNOW supply is dynamic and may increase and decrease).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This would give the following daily `SRT`(without considering that the $KNOW supply is dynamic and may increase and decrease).
```
